Various Companies like telefonica and xchanging have started to use Robotic process automation to automate repetitive, tedious, and error-prone routines in business processes. The promise of RPA is to improve process performance, generate great cost savings and is has been hailed as 'the fastest-growing segment of the enterprise software market."
RPA as such can be considered a generic term for normal day-to-day software except that it mimics human interaction with graphical application interfaces.
"Robotic Process Automation (RPA) is an emerging technology that allows organizations automating repetitive clerical tasks by executing scripts that encode sequences of fine-grained interactions with Web and desktop applications"[2].  
or 
“RPA is an umbrella term for tools that operate on the user interface of other computer systems in the way a human would do”
 On its own, it doesn't represent a new stand-alone class of techniques rather depends on various enabling technologies(usually AI based technologies). What can be automated is the key question? Well, implementing RPA is suitable in situations where processes that are too infrequent for traditional process automation to be profitable, but still repetitive  enough to be formalized into an RPA process mode[1]. Sometimes we identify opportunities from logs of interactions between workers and Web and desktop applications[2]. Other times we can follow a framework like Value-driven RPA[4]: 
Value-driven RPA is a part of a discipline of process-led digital transformation management, leveraging the capabilities of Business Process Management (BPM) to realise the full value of digital initiatives, fast and at minimal risk
One of the enabling technologies for RPA is machine learning and AI. This is refered to as Intelligent Process Automation (IPA) in the literature. In the ML context, the challenge for companies to implement an RPA based solution would be to be to first build the right datasets for learning. This will require an internal effort from the companies initially. But later same datasets can be used across different industries(performing similar tasks) to bootstrap the learning agent. Since RPA's focus is on replacing humans, we will probably focus on recording the activities typically performed by humans. e.g UI logs (clickstreams, keylogs etc). For RL based solutions, we might want to record the events on a much more lower level of granularity. Additionally we should record various state features and if possible, action probabilities (The probability that the current system took the action logged). Other challenges that RPA faces include dealing with exceptions during the execution of automated processes, and managing process automation on an organizational level.  
Automation and decision support: In in the context of Process Analytics, RPA aims at automating business processes that consist of human interaction with software and decision support for resources involved in process execution. RPA offers interesting opportunities to improve business process performance[4].  
Reinforcement learning can potentially replace or automate knowledge worker decision making. But RL based systems are still in their infancy so its better that such systems be seen as recommender systems that provides decision support to knowledge workers. We focused on knowledge workers because they represent interesting work. But for normal workers performing administrative tasks, you can make the claim that given the right datasets, you can automate the decision making if it takes <1sec for that particular worker.
